docs/deprecations.rst, before:

.. _deprecations:

Deprecations and removals
=========================

This page lists Pillow features that are deprecated, or have been removed in
past major releases, and gives the alternatives to use instead.

Deprecated features
-------------------

Below are features which are considered deprecated. Where appropriate,
a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` is issued.

PSFile
~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.5.0

The :py:class:`~PIL.EpsImagePlugin.PSFile` class has been deprecated and will
be removed in Pillow 11 (2024-10-15). This class was only made as a helper to
be used internally, so there is no replacement. If you need this functionality
though, it is a very short class that can easily be recreated in your own code.

PyAccess and Image.USE_CFFI_ACCESS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 10.0.0

Since Pillow's C API is now faster than PyAccess on PyPy,
:py:mod:`~PIL.PyAccess` has been deprecated and will be removed in Pillow
11.0.0 (2024-10-15). Pillow's C API will now be used by default on PyPy instead.

``Image.USE_CFFI_ACCESS``, for switching from the C API to PyAccess, is
similarly deprecated.

Removed features
----------------

Deprecated features are only removed in major releases after an appropriate
period of deprecation has passed.

Tk/Tcl 8.4
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Support for Tk/Tcl 8.4 was removed in Pillow 10.0.0 (2023-07-01).

Categories
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

``im.category`` was removed along with the related ``Image.NORMAL``,
``Image.SEQUENCE`` and ``Image.CONTAINER`` attributes.

To determine if an image has multiple frames or not,
``getattr(im, "is_animated", False)`` can be used instead.

JpegImagePlugin.convert_dict_qtables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Since deprecation in Pillow 8.3.0, the ``convert_dict_qtables`` method no longer
performed any operations on the data given to it, and has been removed.

ImagePalette size parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.4.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Before Pillow 8.3.0, ``ImagePalette`` required palette data of particular lengths by
default, and the ``size`` parameter could be used to override that. Pillow 8.3.0
removed the default required length, also removing the need for the ``size`` parameter.

ImageShow.Viewer.show_file file argument
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The ``file`` argument in :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageShow.Viewer.show_file()` has been
removed and replaced by ``path``.

In effect, ``viewer.show_file("test.jpg")`` will continue to work unchanged.

Constants
~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

A number of constants have been removed.
Instead, ``enum.IntEnum`` classes have been added.

.. note::

    Additional ``Image`` constants were deprecated in Pillow 9.1.0, but that
    was reversed in Pillow 9.4.0 and those constants will now remain available.
    See :ref:`restored-image-constants`

=====================================================  ============================================================
Removed                                                Use instead
=====================================================  ============================================================
``Image.LINEAR``                                       ``Image.BILINEAR`` or ``Image.Resampling.BILINEAR``
``Image.CUBIC``                                        ``Image.BICUBIC`` or ``Image.Resampling.BICUBIC``
``Image.ANTIALIAS``                                    ``Image.LANCZOS`` or ``Image.Resampling.LANCZOS``
``ImageCms.INTENT_PERCEPTUAL``                         ``ImageCms.Intent.PERCEPTUAL``
``ImageCms.INTENT_RELATIVE_COLORMETRIC``               ``ImageCms.Intent.RELATIVE_COLORMETRIC``
``ImageCms.INTENT_SATURATION``                         ``ImageCms.Intent.SATURATION``
``ImageCms.INTENT_ABSOLUTE_COLORIMETRIC``              ``ImageCms.Intent.ABSOLUTE_COLORIMETRIC``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_INPUT``                           ``ImageCms.Direction.INPUT``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_OUTPUT``                          ``ImageCms.Direction.OUTPUT``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_PROOF``                           ``ImageCms.Direction.PROOF``
``ImageFont.LAYOUT_BASIC``                             ``ImageFont.Layout.BASIC``
``ImageFont.LAYOUT_RAQM``                              ``ImageFont.Layout.RAQM``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_FORMAT_JPEG``                     ``BlpImagePlugin.Format.JPEG``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_UNCOMPRESSED``           ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.UNCOMPRESSED``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_DXT``                    ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.DXT``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_UNCOMPRESSED_RAW_RGBA``  ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.UNCOMPRESSED_RAW_RGBA``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT1``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT1``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT3``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT3``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT5``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT5``
``FtexImagePlugin.FORMAT_DXT1``                        ``FtexImagePlugin.Format.DXT1``
``FtexImagePlugin.FORMAT_UNCOMPRESSED``                ``FtexImagePlugin.Format.UNCOMPRESSED``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_NONE``                ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_NONE``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_BACKGROUND``          ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_BACKGROUND``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_PREVIOUS``            ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_PREVIOUS``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_BLEND_OP_SOURCE``                ``PngImagePlugin.Blend.OP_SOURCE``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_BLEND_OP_OVER``                  ``PngImagePlugin.Blend.OP_OVER``
=====================================================  ============================================================

FitsStubImagePlugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The stub image plugin ``FitsStubImagePlugin`` has been removed.
FITS images can be read without a handler through :mod:`~PIL.FitsImagePlugin` instead.

Font size and offset methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Several functions for computing the size and offset of rendered text have been removed:

=============================================================== =============================================================================================================
Removed                                                         Use instead
=============================================================== =============================================================================================================
``FreeTypeFont.getsize()`` and ``FreeTypeFont.getoffset()``     :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getlength`
``FreeTypeFont.getsize_multiline()``                            :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_textbbox`
``ImageFont.getsize()``                                         :py:meth:`.ImageFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.ImageFont.getlength`
``TransposedFont.getsize()``                                    :py:meth:`.TransposedFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.TransposedFont.getlength`
``ImageDraw.textsize()`` and ``ImageDraw.multiline_textsize()`` :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textbbox`, :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textlength` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_textbbox`
``ImageDraw2.Draw.textsize()``                                  :py:meth:`.ImageDraw2.Draw.textbbox` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw2.Draw.textlength`
=============================================================== =============================================================================================================

Previous code::

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont

    font = ImageFont.truetype("Tests/fonts/FreeMono.ttf")
    width, height = font.getsize("Hello world")
    left, top = font.getoffset("Hello world")

    im = Image.new("RGB", (100, 100))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    width, height = draw.textsize("Hello world")

    width, height = font.getsize_multiline("Hello\nworld")
    width, height = draw.multiline_textsize("Hello\nworld")

Use instead::

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont

    font = ImageFont.truetype("Tests/fonts/FreeMono.ttf")
    left, top, right, bottom = font.getbbox("Hello world")
    width, height = right - left, bottom - top

    im = Image.new("RGB", (100, 100))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    width = draw.textlength("Hello world")

    left, top, right, bottom = draw.multiline_textbbox((0, 0), "Hello\nworld")
    width, height = right - left, bottom - top

FreeTypeFont.getmask2 fill parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The undocumented ``fill`` parameter of :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getmask2` has been
removed.

PhotoImage.paste box parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The ``box`` parameter was unused and has been removed.

PyQt5 and PySide2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

`Qt 5 reached end-of-life <https://www.qt.io/blog/qt-5.15-released>`_ on 2020-12-08 for
open-source users (and will reach EOL on 2023-12-08 for commercial licence holders).

Support for PyQt5 and PySide2 has been removed from ``ImageQt``. Upgrade to
`PyQt6 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/static/Docs/PyQt6/>`_ or
`PySide6 <https://doc.qt.io/qtforpython-6/>`_ instead.

Image.coerce_e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

This undocumented method has been removed.

PILLOW_VERSION constant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Use ``__version__`` instead.

It was initially removed in Pillow 7.0.0, but temporarily brought back in 7.1.0
to give projects more time to upgrade.

Image.show command parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

The ``command`` parameter has been removed. Use a subclass of
:py:class:`.ImageShow.Viewer` instead.

Image._showxv
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Use :py:meth:`.Image.Image.show` instead. If custom behaviour is required, use
:py:func:`.ImageShow.register` to add a custom :py:class:`.ImageShow.Viewer` class.

ImageFile.raise_ioerror
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

:py:exc:`IOError` was merged into :py:exc:`OSError` in Python 3.3.
So, ``ImageFile.raise_ioerror`` has been removed.
Use ``ImageFile.raise_oserror`` instead.

FreeType 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Support for FreeType 2.7 has been removed.

We recommend upgrading to at least `FreeType`_ 2.10.4, which fixed a severe
vulnerability introduced in FreeType 2.6 (:cve:`2020-15999`).

.. _FreeType: https://freetype.org/

im.offset
~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 1.1.2
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

``im.offset()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.ImageChops.offset()` instead.

It was documented as deprecated in PIL 1.1.2,
raised a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` since 1.1.5,
an :py:exc:`Exception` since Pillow 3.0.0
and :py:exc:`NotImplementedError` since 3.3.0.

Image.fromstring, im.fromstring and im.tostring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 2.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

* ``Image.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.tostring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.tobytes()` instead.

They issued a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` since 2.0.0,
an :py:exc:`Exception` since 3.0.0
and :py:exc:`NotImplementedError` since 3.3.0.

ImageCms.CmsProfile attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 3.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

Some attributes in :py:class:`PIL.ImageCms.CmsProfile` have been removed. From 6.0.0,
they issued a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning`:

========================  ===================================================
Removed                   Use instead
========================  ===================================================
``color_space``           Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.xcolor_space`
``pcs``                   Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.connection_space`
``product_copyright``     Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.copyright`
``product_desc``          Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_description``   Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_manufacturer``  Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.manufacturer`
``product_model``         Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.model`
========================  ===================================================

Python 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Python 2.7 reached end-of-life on 2020-01-01. Pillow 6.x was the last series to
support Python 2.

Image.__del__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Implicitly closing the image's underlying file in ``Image.__del__`` has been removed.
Use a context manager or call ``Image.close()`` instead to close the file in a
deterministic way.

Previous method::

    im = Image.open("hopper.png")
    im.save("out.jpg")

Use instead::

    with Image.open("hopper.png") as im:
        im.save("out.jpg")

PIL.*ImagePlugin.__version__ attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

The version constants of individual plugins have been removed. Use ``PIL.__version__``
instead.

===============================  =================================  ==================================
Removed                          Removed                            Removed
===============================  =================================  ==================================
``BmpImagePlugin.__version__``   ``Jpeg2KImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PngImagePlugin.__version__``
``CurImagePlugin.__version__``   ``JpegImagePlugin.__version__``    ``PpmImagePlugin.__version__``
``DcxImagePlugin.__version__``   ``McIdasImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PsdImagePlugin.__version__``
``EpsImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MicImagePlugin.__version__``     ``SgiImagePlugin.__version__``
``FliImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MpegImagePlugin.__version__``    ``SunImagePlugin.__version__``
``FpxImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MpoImagePlugin.__version__``     ``TgaImagePlugin.__version__``
``GdImageFile.__version__``      ``MspImagePlugin.__version__``     ``TiffImagePlugin.__version__``
``GifImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PalmImagePlugin.__version__``    ``WmfImagePlugin.__version__``
``IcoImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PcdImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XbmImagePlugin.__version__``
``ImImagePlugin.__version__``    ``PcxImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XpmImagePlugin.__version__``
``ImtImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PdfImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XVThumbImagePlugin.__version__``
``IptcImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PixarImagePlugin.__version__``
===============================  =================================  ==================================

PyQt4 and PySide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Qt 4 reached end-of-life on 2015-12-19. Its Python bindings are also EOL: PyQt4 since
2018-08-31 and PySide since 2015-10-14.

Support for PyQt4 and PySide has been removed  from ``ImageQt``. Please upgrade to PyQt5
or PySide2.

Setting the size of TIFF images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Setting the size of a TIFF image directly (eg. ``im.size = (256, 256)``) throws
an error. Use ``Image.resize`` instead.

VERSION constant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

``VERSION`` (the old PIL version, always 1.1.7) has been removed. Use
``__version__`` instead.

Undocumented ImageOps functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 4.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

Several undocumented functions in ``ImageOps`` have been removed. Use the equivalents
in ``ImageFilter`` instead:

==========================  ============================
Removed                     Use instead
==========================  ============================
``ImageOps.box_blur``       ``ImageFilter.BoxBlur``
``ImageOps.gaussian_blur``  ``ImageFilter.GaussianBlur``
``ImageOps.gblur``          ``ImageFilter.GaussianBlur``
``ImageOps.usm``            ``ImageFilter.UnsharpMask``
``ImageOps.unsharp_mask``   ``ImageFilter.UnsharpMask``
==========================  ============================

PIL.OleFileIO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 4.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

``PIL.OleFileIO`` was removed as a vendored file in Pillow 4.0.0 (2017-01) in favour of
the upstream :pypi:`olefile` Python package, and replaced with an :py:exc:`ImportError` in 5.0.0
(2018-01). The deprecated file has now been removed from Pillow. If needed, install from
PyPI (eg. ``python3 -m pip install olefile``).

Commit message:

Deprecate raise_oserror() for removal in Pillow 12
It's only useful if the caller has an IMAGING_CODEC_* error code, which
are only produced by functions internal to Pillow.

docs/deprecations.rst, after:

.. _deprecations:

Deprecations and removals
=========================

This page lists Pillow features that are deprecated, or have been removed in
past major releases, and gives the alternatives to use instead.

Deprecated features
-------------------

Below are features which are considered deprecated. Where appropriate,
a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` is issued.

PSFile
~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.5.0

The :py:class:`~PIL.EpsImagePlugin.PSFile` class has been deprecated and will
be removed in Pillow 11 (2024-10-15). This class was only made as a helper to
be used internally, so there is no replacement. If you need this functionality
though, it is a very short class that can easily be recreated in your own code.

PyAccess and Image.USE_CFFI_ACCESS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 10.0.0

Since Pillow's C API is now faster than PyAccess on PyPy,
:py:mod:`~PIL.PyAccess` has been deprecated and will be removed in Pillow
11.0.0 (2024-10-15). Pillow's C API will now be used by default on PyPy instead.

``Image.USE_CFFI_ACCESS``, for switching from the C API to PyAccess, is
similarly deprecated.

ImageFile.raise_oserror
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 10.2.0

``ImageFile.raise_oserror`` has been deprecated and will be removed in Pillow
12.0.0 (2025-10-15). The function is undocumented and is only useful for
translating error codes returned by internal codec APIs.

Removed features
----------------

Deprecated features are only removed in major releases after an appropriate
period of deprecation has passed.

Tk/Tcl 8.4
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Support for Tk/Tcl 8.4 was removed in Pillow 10.0.0 (2023-07-01).

Categories
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

``im.category`` was removed along with the related ``Image.NORMAL``,
``Image.SEQUENCE`` and ``Image.CONTAINER`` attributes.

To determine if an image has multiple frames or not,
``getattr(im, "is_animated", False)`` can be used instead.

JpegImagePlugin.convert_dict_qtables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Since deprecation in Pillow 8.3.0, the ``convert_dict_qtables`` method no longer
performed any operations on the data given to it, and has been removed.

ImagePalette size parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.4.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Before Pillow 8.3.0, ``ImagePalette`` required palette data of particular lengths by
default, and the ``size`` parameter could be used to override that. Pillow 8.3.0
removed the default required length, also removing the need for the ``size`` parameter.

ImageShow.Viewer.show_file file argument
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The ``file`` argument in :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageShow.Viewer.show_file()` has been
removed and replaced by ``path``.

In effect, ``viewer.show_file("test.jpg")`` will continue to work unchanged.

Constants
~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

A number of constants have been removed.
Instead, ``enum.IntEnum`` classes have been added.

.. note::

    Additional ``Image`` constants were deprecated in Pillow 9.1.0, but that
    was reversed in Pillow 9.4.0 and those constants will now remain available.
    See :ref:`restored-image-constants`

=====================================================  ============================================================
Removed                                                Use instead
=====================================================  ============================================================
``Image.LINEAR``                                       ``Image.BILINEAR`` or ``Image.Resampling.BILINEAR``
``Image.CUBIC``                                        ``Image.BICUBIC`` or ``Image.Resampling.BICUBIC``
``Image.ANTIALIAS``                                    ``Image.LANCZOS`` or ``Image.Resampling.LANCZOS``
``ImageCms.INTENT_PERCEPTUAL``                         ``ImageCms.Intent.PERCEPTUAL``
``ImageCms.INTENT_RELATIVE_COLORMETRIC``               ``ImageCms.Intent.RELATIVE_COLORMETRIC``
``ImageCms.INTENT_SATURATION``                         ``ImageCms.Intent.SATURATION``
``ImageCms.INTENT_ABSOLUTE_COLORIMETRIC``              ``ImageCms.Intent.ABSOLUTE_COLORIMETRIC``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_INPUT``                           ``ImageCms.Direction.INPUT``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_OUTPUT``                          ``ImageCms.Direction.OUTPUT``
``ImageCms.DIRECTION_PROOF``                           ``ImageCms.Direction.PROOF``
``ImageFont.LAYOUT_BASIC``                             ``ImageFont.Layout.BASIC``
``ImageFont.LAYOUT_RAQM``                              ``ImageFont.Layout.RAQM``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_FORMAT_JPEG``                     ``BlpImagePlugin.Format.JPEG``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_UNCOMPRESSED``           ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.UNCOMPRESSED``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_DXT``                    ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.DXT``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ENCODING_UNCOMPRESSED_RAW_RGBA``  ``BlpImagePlugin.Encoding.UNCOMPRESSED_RAW_RGBA``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT1``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT1``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT3``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT3``
``BlpImagePlugin.BLP_ALPHA_ENCODING_DXT5``             ``BlpImagePlugin.AlphaEncoding.DXT5``
``FtexImagePlugin.FORMAT_DXT1``                        ``FtexImagePlugin.Format.DXT1``
``FtexImagePlugin.FORMAT_UNCOMPRESSED``                ``FtexImagePlugin.Format.UNCOMPRESSED``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_NONE``                ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_NONE``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_BACKGROUND``          ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_BACKGROUND``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_DISPOSE_OP_PREVIOUS``            ``PngImagePlugin.Disposal.OP_PREVIOUS``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_BLEND_OP_SOURCE``                ``PngImagePlugin.Blend.OP_SOURCE``
``PngImagePlugin.APNG_BLEND_OP_OVER``                  ``PngImagePlugin.Blend.OP_OVER``
=====================================================  ============================================================

FitsStubImagePlugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The stub image plugin ``FitsStubImagePlugin`` has been removed.
FITS images can be read without a handler through :mod:`~PIL.FitsImagePlugin` instead.

Font size and offset methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

Several functions for computing the size and offset of rendered text have been removed:

=============================================================== =============================================================================================================
Removed                                                         Use instead
=============================================================== =============================================================================================================
``FreeTypeFont.getsize()`` and ``FreeTypeFont.getoffset()``     :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getlength`
``FreeTypeFont.getsize_multiline()``                            :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_textbbox`
``ImageFont.getsize()``                                         :py:meth:`.ImageFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.ImageFont.getlength`
``TransposedFont.getsize()``                                    :py:meth:`.TransposedFont.getbbox` and :py:meth:`.TransposedFont.getlength`
``ImageDraw.textsize()`` and ``ImageDraw.multiline_textsize()`` :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textbbox`, :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textlength` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_textbbox`
``ImageDraw2.Draw.textsize()``                                  :py:meth:`.ImageDraw2.Draw.textbbox` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw2.Draw.textlength`
=============================================================== =============================================================================================================

Previous code::

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont

    font = ImageFont.truetype("Tests/fonts/FreeMono.ttf")
    width, height = font.getsize("Hello world")
    left, top = font.getoffset("Hello world")

    im = Image.new("RGB", (100, 100))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    width, height = draw.textsize("Hello world")

    width, height = font.getsize_multiline("Hello\nworld")
    width, height = draw.multiline_textsize("Hello\nworld")

Use instead::

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont

    font = ImageFont.truetype("Tests/fonts/FreeMono.ttf")
    left, top, right, bottom = font.getbbox("Hello world")
    width, height = right - left, bottom - top

    im = Image.new("RGB", (100, 100))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    width = draw.textlength("Hello world")

    left, top, right, bottom = draw.multiline_textbbox((0, 0), "Hello\nworld")
    width, height = right - left, bottom - top

FreeTypeFont.getmask2 fill parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The undocumented ``fill`` parameter of :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getmask2` has been
removed.

PhotoImage.paste box parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

The ``box`` parameter was unused and has been removed.

PyQt5 and PySide2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

`Qt 5 reached end-of-life <https://www.qt.io/blog/qt-5.15-released>`_ on 2020-12-08 for
open-source users (and will reach EOL on 2023-12-08 for commercial licence holders).

Support for PyQt5 and PySide2 has been removed from ``ImageQt``. Upgrade to
`PyQt6 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/static/Docs/PyQt6/>`_ or
`PySide6 <https://doc.qt.io/qtforpython-6/>`_ instead.

Image.coerce_e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 9.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 10.0.0

This undocumented method has been removed.

PILLOW_VERSION constant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Use ``__version__`` instead.

It was initially removed in Pillow 7.0.0, but temporarily brought back in 7.1.0
to give projects more time to upgrade.

Image.show command parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

The ``command`` parameter has been removed. Use a subclass of
:py:class:`.ImageShow.Viewer` instead.

Image._showxv
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Use :py:meth:`.Image.Image.show` instead. If custom behaviour is required, use
:py:func:`.ImageShow.register` to add a custom :py:class:`.ImageShow.Viewer` class.

ImageFile.raise_ioerror
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 7.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

:py:exc:`IOError` was merged into :py:exc:`OSError` in Python 3.3.
So, ``ImageFile.raise_ioerror`` has been removed.
Use ``ImageFile.raise_oserror`` instead.

FreeType 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 8.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 9.0.0

Support for FreeType 2.7 has been removed.

We recommend upgrading to at least `FreeType`_ 2.10.4, which fixed a severe
vulnerability introduced in FreeType 2.6 (:cve:`2020-15999`).

.. _FreeType: https://freetype.org/

im.offset
~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 1.1.2
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

``im.offset()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.ImageChops.offset()` instead.

It was documented as deprecated in PIL 1.1.2,
raised a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` since 1.1.5,
an :py:exc:`Exception` since Pillow 3.0.0
and :py:exc:`NotImplementedError` since 3.3.0.

Image.fromstring, im.fromstring and im.tostring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 2.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

* ``Image.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.tostring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.tobytes()` instead.

They issued a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning` since 2.0.0,
an :py:exc:`Exception` since 3.0.0
and :py:exc:`NotImplementedError` since 3.3.0.

ImageCms.CmsProfile attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 3.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 8.0.0

Some attributes in :py:class:`PIL.ImageCms.CmsProfile` have been removed. From 6.0.0,
they issued a :py:exc:`DeprecationWarning`:

========================  ===================================================
Removed                   Use instead
========================  ===================================================
``color_space``           Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.xcolor_space`
``pcs``                   Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.connection_space`
``product_copyright``     Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.copyright`
``product_desc``          Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_description``   Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_manufacturer``  Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.manufacturer`
``product_model``         Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.model`
========================  ===================================================

Python 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Python 2.7 reached end-of-life on 2020-01-01. Pillow 6.x was the last series to
support Python 2.

Image.__del__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.1.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Implicitly closing the image's underlying file in ``Image.__del__`` has been removed.
Use a context manager or call ``Image.close()`` instead to close the file in a
deterministic way.

Previous method::

    im = Image.open("hopper.png")
    im.save("out.jpg")

Use instead::

    with Image.open("hopper.png") as im:
        im.save("out.jpg")

PIL.*ImagePlugin.__version__ attributes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

The version constants of individual plugins have been removed. Use ``PIL.__version__``
instead.

===============================  =================================  ==================================
Removed                          Removed                            Removed
===============================  =================================  ==================================
``BmpImagePlugin.__version__``   ``Jpeg2KImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PngImagePlugin.__version__``
``CurImagePlugin.__version__``   ``JpegImagePlugin.__version__``    ``PpmImagePlugin.__version__``
``DcxImagePlugin.__version__``   ``McIdasImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PsdImagePlugin.__version__``
``EpsImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MicImagePlugin.__version__``     ``SgiImagePlugin.__version__``
``FliImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MpegImagePlugin.__version__``    ``SunImagePlugin.__version__``
``FpxImagePlugin.__version__``   ``MpoImagePlugin.__version__``     ``TgaImagePlugin.__version__``
``GdImageFile.__version__``      ``MspImagePlugin.__version__``     ``TiffImagePlugin.__version__``
``GifImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PalmImagePlugin.__version__``    ``WmfImagePlugin.__version__``
``IcoImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PcdImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XbmImagePlugin.__version__``
``ImImagePlugin.__version__``    ``PcxImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XpmImagePlugin.__version__``
``ImtImagePlugin.__version__``   ``PdfImagePlugin.__version__``     ``XVThumbImagePlugin.__version__``
``IptcImagePlugin.__version__``  ``PixarImagePlugin.__version__``
===============================  =================================  ==================================

PyQt4 and PySide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 6.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Qt 4 reached end-of-life on 2015-12-19. Its Python bindings are also EOL: PyQt4 since
2018-08-31 and PySide since 2015-10-14.

Support for PyQt4 and PySide has been removed  from ``ImageQt``. Please upgrade to PyQt5
or PySide2.

Setting the size of TIFF images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 7.0.0

Setting the size of a TIFF image directly (eg. ``im.size = (256, 256)``) throws
an error. Use ``Image.resize`` instead.

VERSION constant
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 5.2.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

``VERSION`` (the old PIL version, always 1.1.7) has been removed. Use
``__version__`` instead.

Undocumented ImageOps functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 4.3.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

Several undocumented functions in ``ImageOps`` have been removed. Use the equivalents
in ``ImageFilter`` instead:

==========================  ============================
Removed                     Use instead
==========================  ============================
``ImageOps.box_blur``       ``ImageFilter.BoxBlur``
``ImageOps.gaussian_blur``  ``ImageFilter.GaussianBlur``
``ImageOps.gblur``          ``ImageFilter.GaussianBlur``
``ImageOps.usm``            ``ImageFilter.UnsharpMask``
``ImageOps.unsharp_mask``   ``ImageFilter.UnsharpMask``
==========================  ============================

PIL.OleFileIO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. deprecated:: 4.0.0
.. versionremoved:: 6.0.0

``PIL.OleFileIO`` was removed as a vendored file in Pillow 4.0.0 (2017-01) in favour of
the upstream :pypi:`olefile` Python package, and replaced with an :py:exc:`ImportError` in 5.0.0
(2018-01). The deprecated file has now been removed from Pillow. If needed, install from
PyPI (eg. ``python3 -m pip install olefile``).
